usage/github-action.md, before:

# GitHub Action

## Guide

You can use `yq` in your GitHub action, for instance:

```yaml
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2
  - name: Get SDK Version from config
    id: lookupSdkVersion
    uses: mikefarah/yq@master
    with:
      cmd: yq '.renutil.version' 'config.yml'
  - name: Restore Cache
    id: restore-cache
    uses: actions/cache@v2
    with:
      path: ../renpy
      key:  ${{ runner.os }}-sdk-${{ steps.lookupSdkVersion.outputs.result }}
      restore-keys: |
        ${{ runner.os }}-sdk
  # ... more
```

The `yq` action sets a `result` variable in its output, making it available to subsequent steps. In this case it's available as `steps.lookupSdkVersion.outputs.result`.

Details of how the GitHub action itself is configured can be found [here](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/issues/844#issuecomment-856700574)

If you [enable step debug logging](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs/enabling-debug-logging#enabling-step-debug-logging), you can see additional information about the exact command sent as well as the response returned within the GitHub Action logs.

Thanks @[**devorbitus**](https://github.com/devorbitus)**!**


## Troubleshooting

### Write in-place file permission errors
The default user in github action dockerfiles (at the time of writing) seems to be 1001. This is what the `yq` github action is configured to run with (see the docker file [here](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/blob/master/github-action/Dockerfile))

There's a working example defined [here](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/blob/master/.github/workflows/test-yq.yml) and you can see the Github action [results here](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/actions/workflows/test-yq.yml)

If you need to set the action to another user, follow the advice [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58955666/how-to-set-the-docker-user-in-github-actions).

Commit message:

Added github action env example

usage/github-action.md, after:

# GitHub Action

## Guide

You can use `yq` in your GitHub action, for instance:

```yaml
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2
  - name: Get SDK Version from config
    id: lookupSdkVersion
    uses: mikefarah/yq@master
    with:
      cmd: yq '.renutil.version' 'config.yml'
  - name: Restore Cache
    id: restore-cache
    uses: actions/cache@v2
    with:
      path: ../renpy
      key:  ${{ runner.os }}-sdk-${{ steps.lookupSdkVersion.outputs.result }}
      restore-keys: |
        ${{ runner.os }}-sdk
  # ... more
```

The `yq` action sets a `result` variable in its output, making it available to subsequent steps. In this case it's available as `steps.lookupSdkVersion.outputs.result`.

Details of how the GitHub action itself is configured can be found [here](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/issues/844#issuecomment-856700574)

If you [enable step debug logging](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs/enabling-debug-logging#enabling-step-debug-logging), you can see additional information about the exact command sent as well as the response returned within the GitHub Action logs.

Thanks @[**devorbitus**](https://github.com/devorbitus)**!**


## Environment variables with Github Actions:

GitHub Actions escape and interpolate rules can conflict with some yq syntax. Here is an example of how to quote a variable that could contain dots in a query path (more usage context: ambanum/OpenTermsArchive#899).

```yaml
  - name: Get an entry with a variable that might contain dots or spaces
    id: get_username
    uses: mikefarah/yq@master
    with:
      cmd: yq '.all.children.["${{ matrix.ip_address }}"].username' ops/inventories/production.yml
  - name: Reuse a variable obtained in another step
    run: echo ${{ steps.get_username.outputs.result }}
```

Thanks @MattiSG!

## Troubleshooting

### Write in-place file permission errors
The default user in github action dockerfiles (at the time of writing) seems to be 1001. This is what the `yq` github action is configured to run with (see the docker file [here](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/blob/master/github-action/Dockerfile))

There's a working example defined [here](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/blob/master/.github/workflows/test-yq.yml) and you can see the Github action [results here](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/actions/workflows/test-yq.yml)

If you need to set the action to another user, follow the advice [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58955666/how-to-set-the-docker-user-in-github-actions).
