pkg/yqlib/doc/operators/assign-update.md, before:

# Assign (Update)

This operator is used to update node values. It can be used in either the:

### plain form: `=`
Which will assign the LHS node values to the RHS node values. The RHS expression is run against the matching nodes in the pipeline.

### relative form: `|=`
This will do a similar thing to the plain form, however, the RHS expression is run against _the LHS nodes_. This is useful for updating values based on old values, e.g. increment.


### Flags
- `c` clobber custom tags

## Create yaml file
Running
```bash
yq --null-input '.a.b = "cat" | .x = "frog"'
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: cat
x: frog
```

## Update node to be the child value
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b:
    g: foof
```
then
```bash
yq '.a |= .b' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  g: foof
```

## Double elements in an array
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
- 1
- 2
- 3
```
then
```bash
yq '.[] |= . * 2' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
- 2
- 4
- 6
```

## Update node from another file
Note this will also work when the second file is a scalar (string/number)

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: apples
```
And another sample another.yml file of:
```yaml
b: bob
```
then
```bash
yq eval-all 'select(fileIndex==0).a = select(fileIndex==1) | select(fileIndex==0)' sample.yml another.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: bob
```

## Update node to be the sibling value
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b: child
b: sibling
```
then
```bash
yq '.a = .b' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: sibling
b: sibling
```

## Updated multiple paths
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: fieldA
b: fieldB
c: fieldC
```
then
```bash
yq '(.a, .c) = "potato"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: potato
b: fieldB
c: potato
```

## Update string value
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b: apple
```
then
```bash
yq '.a.b = "frog"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: frog
```

## Update string value via |=
Note there is no difference between `=` and `|=` when the RHS is a scalar

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b: apple
```
then
```bash
yq '.a.b |= "frog"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: frog
```

## Update deeply selected results
Note that the LHS is wrapped in brackets! This is to ensure we don't first filter out the yaml and then update the snippet.

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b: apple
  c: cactus
```
then
```bash
yq '(.a[] | select(. == "apple")) = "frog"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: frog
  c: cactus
```

## Update array values
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
- candy
- apple
- sandy
```
then
```bash
yq '(.[] | select(. == "*andy")) = "bogs"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
- bogs
- apple
- bogs
```

## Update empty object
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
{}
```
then
```bash
yq '.a.b |= "bogs"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: bogs
```

## Update node value that has an anchor
Anchor will remaple

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: &cool cat
```
then
```bash
yq '.a = "dog"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: &cool dog
```

## Update empty object and array
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
{}
```
then
```bash
yq '.a.b.[0] |= "bogs"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b:
    - bogs
```

## Custom types are maintained by default
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: !cat meow
b: !dog woof
```
then
```bash
yq '.a = .b' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: !cat woof
b: !dog woof
```

## Custom types: clovver
Use the `c` option to clobber custom tags

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: !cat meow
b: !dog woof
```
then
```bash
yq '.a =c .b' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: !dog woof
b: !dog woof
```

Commit message:

Minor typos (#1595)
* Remove extra backtick

* Reword explanation of update

* Reword explanation of relative update

* Change "remaple" to "remain"

* Change "clovver" to "clobber"

* Reword explanation of update for comment operators

* Reword explanation of relative update for comment operators

* Change "array" to "expression"

* Change "the golangs" to "Golang's"

* Change "golangs" to "Golang's"

* Change "can durations" to "can add durations"

* Change "array scalars" to "arrays"

* Change "beit" to "be it"

* Fix typo in `eval` tip

* Fix typo in header for `has` operation

* Add space before pipe in `line` operator example

* Fix typos in explanation of deep array merges

* Change "is now used" to "is now used."

* Change "object," to "object."

* Changes "indexes" to "indices"

* Remove extraneous copied text from `..` article

* Reword explanation of `...` operator

* Change "your are" to "you are"

* Add link to `string` operator docs in `select` article

* Change "is a" to "parameter specifies" in `string` operators article

* Change "new line" to "newline"

* Change "golang regex" to "Golang's regex"

* Change "golang" to "Golang"

* Add period

* Remove comma in `subtract` article

* Remove duplicate number subtraction example

* Remove comma in `traverse` operator article

* Clarify use of brackets when `read`ing with special characters

pkg/yqlib/doc/operators/assign-update.md, after:

# Assign (Update)

This operator is used to update node values. It can be used in either the:

### plain form: `=`
Which will set the LHS node values equal to the RHS node values. The RHS expression is run against the matching nodes in the pipeline.

### relative form: `|=`
This will do a similar thing to the plain form, but the RHS expression is run with _each LHS node as context_. This is useful for updating values based on old values, e.g. increment.


### Flags
- `c` clobber custom tags

## Create yaml file
Running
```bash
yq --null-input '.a.b = "cat" | .x = "frog"'
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: cat
x: frog
```

## Update node to be the child value
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b:
    g: foof
```
then
```bash
yq '.a |= .b' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  g: foof
```

## Double elements in an array
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
- 1
- 2
- 3
```
then
```bash
yq '.[] |= . * 2' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
- 2
- 4
- 6
```

## Update node from another file
Note this will also work when the second file is a scalar (string/number)

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: apples
```
And another sample another.yml file of:
```yaml
b: bob
```
then
```bash
yq eval-all 'select(fileIndex==0).a = select(fileIndex==1) | select(fileIndex==0)' sample.yml another.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: bob
```

## Update node to be the sibling value
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b: child
b: sibling
```
then
```bash
yq '.a = .b' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: sibling
b: sibling
```

## Updated multiple paths
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: fieldA
b: fieldB
c: fieldC
```
then
```bash
yq '(.a, .c) = "potato"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: potato
b: fieldB
c: potato
```

## Update string value
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b: apple
```
then
```bash
yq '.a.b = "frog"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: frog
```

## Update string value via |=
Note there is no difference between `=` and `|=` when the RHS is a scalar

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b: apple
```
then
```bash
yq '.a.b |= "frog"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: frog
```

## Update deeply selected results
Note that the LHS is wrapped in brackets! This is to ensure we don't first filter out the yaml and then update the snippet.

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a:
  b: apple
  c: cactus
```
then
```bash
yq '(.a[] | select(. == "apple")) = "frog"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: frog
  c: cactus
```

## Update array values
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
- candy
- apple
- sandy
```
then
```bash
yq '(.[] | select(. == "*andy")) = "bogs"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
- bogs
- apple
- bogs
```

## Update empty object
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
{}
```
then
```bash
yq '.a.b |= "bogs"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b: bogs
```

## Update node value that has an anchor
Anchor will remain

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: &cool cat
```
then
```bash
yq '.a = "dog"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: &cool dog
```

## Update empty object and array
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
{}
```
then
```bash
yq '.a.b.[0] |= "bogs"' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a:
  b:
    - bogs
```

## Custom types are maintained by default
Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: !cat meow
b: !dog woof
```
then
```bash
yq '.a = .b' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: !cat woof
b: !dog woof
```

## Custom types: clobber
Use the `c` option to clobber custom tags

Given a sample.yml file of:
```yaml
a: !cat meow
b: !dog woof
```
then
```bash
yq '.a =c .b' sample.yml
```
will output
```yaml
a: !dog woof
b: !dog woof
```
