mkdocs/write.md, before:

```
yaml w <yaml_file|json_file> <path> <new value>
```
{!snippets/works_with_json.md!}

### To Stdout
Given a sample.yaml file of:
```yaml
b:
  c: 2
```
then
```bash
yaml w sample.yaml b.c cat
```
will output:
```yaml
b:
  c: cat
```

### From STDIN
```bash
cat sample.yaml | yaml w - b.c blah
```

### Adding new fields
Any missing fields in the path will be created on the fly.

Given a sample.yaml file of:
```yaml
b:
  c: 2
```
then
```bash
yaml w sample.yaml b.d[0] "new thing"
```
will output:
```yaml
b:
  c: cat
  d:
    - new thing
```

### Updating files in-place
Given a sample.yaml file of:
```yaml
b:
  c: 2
```
then
```bash
yaml w -i sample.yaml b.c cat
```
will update the sample.yaml file so that the value of 'c' is cat.


### Updating multiple values with a script
Given a sample.yaml file of:
```yaml
b:
  c: 2
  e:
    - name: Billy Bob
```
and a script update_instructions.yaml of:
```yaml
b.c: 3
b.e[0].name: Howdy Partner
```
then

```bash
yaml w -s update_instructions.yaml sample.yaml
```
will output:
```yaml
b:
  c: 3
  e:
    - name: Howdy Partner
```

And, of course, you can pipe the instructions in using '-':
```bash
cat update_instructions.yaml | yaml w -s - sample.yaml
```

### Values starting with a hyphen (or dash)
This needs a bit of trickery so that it won't try to parse the value as a CLI option. Specifically you will need to wrap the value with a single and double quotes:

```
yaml w my.path '"-Dvalue"'
```

will output
```yaml
my:
  path: -Dvalue
```

Commit message:

Update docs re using values that look like flags

mkdocs/write.md, after:

```
yaml w <yaml_file|json_file> <path> <new value>
```
{!snippets/works_with_json.md!}

### To Stdout
Given a sample.yaml file of:
```yaml
b:
  c: 2
```
then
```bash
yaml w sample.yaml b.c cat
```
will output:
```yaml
b:
  c: cat
```

### From STDIN
```bash
cat sample.yaml | yaml w - b.c blah
```

### Adding new fields
Any missing fields in the path will be created on the fly.

Given a sample.yaml file of:
```yaml
b:
  c: 2
```
then
```bash
yaml w sample.yaml b.d[0] "new thing"
```
will output:
```yaml
b:
  c: cat
  d:
    - new thing
```

### Updating files in-place
Given a sample.yaml file of:
```yaml
b:
  c: 2
```
then
```bash
yaml w -i sample.yaml b.c cat
```
will update the sample.yaml file so that the value of 'c' is cat.


### Updating multiple values with a script
Given a sample.yaml file of:
```yaml
b:
  c: 2
  e:
    - name: Billy Bob
```
and a script update_instructions.yaml of:
```yaml
b.c: 3
b.e[0].name: Howdy Partner
```
then

```bash
yaml w -s update_instructions.yaml sample.yaml
```
will output:
```yaml
b:
  c: 3
  e:
    - name: Howdy Partner
```

And, of course, you can pipe the instructions in using '-':
```bash
cat update_instructions.yaml | yaml w -s - sample.yaml
```

### Values starting with a hyphen (or dash)
The flag terminator needs to be used to stop the app from attempting to parse the subsequent arguments as flags:

```
yaml w -- my.path -3
```

will output
```yaml
my:
  path: -3
```
